DIRECTORY STRUCTURE

"Using Rosegarden" has undergone numerous structural changes over its
lifespan.  This has left me with a somewhat bizarre directory structure.

The root directory of this CVS module is tutorial/  It contains the
entry-level web site, consisting of various Rosegarden-related graphics and an
index.html that links to the available versions of "Using Rosegarden."

The root directory of "Using Rosegarden" itself is tutorial/using-rosegarden
which is a bit of a legacy.  It should contain only subdirectories.

using-rosegarden/docs			you are here

using-rosegarden/admin			directory to house some build scripts

using-rosegarden/pixmaps		where all pixmaps used in various
					chapters go - see note

using-rosegarden/en-src			the HTML sources for the master,
					English version

using-rosegarden/en			the "compiled" publication version;
					not to be edited by hand

The en-src and pixmaps directories are the heart and soul of "Using
Rosegarden."  I own these, and while I'm alive, I will exert the final,
controlling interest in what goes on here.  English language corrections and
additions may be welcome, but only subject to my editorial approval.


GETTING STARTED

To begin a new translation, you need to create a new ??-src directory for your
source files.  I suggest that you just take a copy of the entire en-src
directory as your starting point.  You may rename the "chapter-??" files to
anything you deem appropriate.  For example, the German translation uses
"kapitel-??" files.

Once you have the translation under way, let me know.  Those of you with CVS
access may feel free to go ahead and add your new ??-src directory and commit
your files.  Those without can send me (dmmcintyr@users.sourceforge.net) a
tarball of your new directory.

For example, you're picking up the Spanish translation, and you've made an
es-src directory.  You can just

	cd tutorial/using-rosegarden
	tar cjf es-src.tar.bz2 es-src

then email me the resulting tarball.

Once the files are in, I will take care of the administrativa.  I'll need to
modify the .book files and make adjustments to tutorial/docmake so that your
translation can be "compiled" into a finished product.  My build system is
definitely rather less than elegant, and I would never ask anyone else to deal
with that mess.  I'll also take care of modifying the master
tutorial/index.html to point to your new translation.

I'm using htmldoc to assemble all of this, and the navigation headers it
provides are in English.  My docmake script will take care of translating
these automatically, but I do need translations for the following strings so
that I can make the necessary additions to the build script.

	Contents, Previous, Next

Make sure I now which is which.


PUBLICATION

Once I've added your translation to the build system, you'll be able to
compile it and have a look at it for yourself by running tutorial/docmake

For example, to build the German web version, change to the tutorial directory
and run

	./docmake de-web

The resulting files can be browsed from ./index.html or
using-rosegarden/de/kapitel-0.html

To build a pdf, run

	./docmake de-pdf

The result goes in de/arbeiten-mit-rosegarden.pdf

I'll put together something similar for your language.


PIXMAPS

All my screenshots are in English.  If this bothers you, feel free to make new
screenshots in your target language.  I'm not terribly concerned with keeping
the look and feel the same, so go ahead and use whatever styles/themes/colors
you normally use.  I suggest that it's probably a good idea to use as many of
the original pixmaps as possible, to save yourself needless toil, but I leave
it up to you, the translator, to make all final decisions about the pixmaps
you include with your translation.

For the time being, due to some ugly considerations in the build system, all
the pixmaps need to go into the using-rosegarden/pixmaps directory.  It would
be most helpful if you could make yours distinguishable by prefixing them with
your language code, so that I can pick them out of the crowd.  Something like

	de-segment-parameters-box.png

would be great.  I will eventually work out a more elegant way of dealing with
this problem, and will create separate directories for language-specific
pixmaps, with some sort of common pool to allow documents to share the common
English versions.  We'll just have to see how it goes once a number of
different translations are floating around.


QUESTIONS?

This is the largest document I've ever written, and the need to make it
something that can be translated by several people into several languages
concurrently is a rather involved problem.  I've spent a lot of time trying to
devise a system that will allow all of us to focus on the meat of the matter
and ignore the technical details as much as possible, but I'm open to
suggestions if anyone has ideas for a more translator-friendly setup.

At least I'm not longer maintaining the master version in a single .sxw file.
:)

Thanks for your interest, and your hard work!
